# keypair-tutorial
Every way of loading a Solana Keypair into a Javascript file using different types of key material.

## Key Material types explained
#### Seed Phrase (Mnemonic):
- A human-readable string of words, 12/18/24 words long.
- Used to derive private keys in a recoverable and user-friendly way.
- Usually generated by wallets.

Looks like this: 
```
cabbage together debris chalk hammer novel wire tunnel rubber labor retire prefer
```

#### Byte Array
- A raw binary representation of a key in the form of a list of byte values.
- The most direct and unencoded form of key data.
- Generated by the Solana CLI when saving a new local keypair to an outfile.

```
[248,212,171,183,118,56,150,86,198,206,58,187,102,63,92,131,18,24,151,162,185,185,42,19,139,86,99,186,160,177,149,229,207,151,106,210,8,20,167,108,215,120,87,203,3,8,224,142,218,214,122,119,109,109,113,73,91,238,214,54,60,109,206,69]
```

#### Base58 Encoded String:
- A text representation of the key using Base58 encoding.
- No confusing characters, so it's less error-prone when you copy-paste.
- Commonly used in wallets - when you export your "Private key", you get a Base58 string.
- No delimiter characters, so it can be copied with a double-click.

```
5yYeHuwyyy4qAqJtvkkA2SDsujQorZD8SvJ3v6YevYEpaVtq5M2vSpSr3Ts8Mzm2gAwKtPqvozpxLejUxgkbpa5a
```

#### Hexadecimal String:
- A key represented as a hexadecimal string (base-16 format)
- Each byte of the key is represented by two hexadecimal characters.
- Idk who generates/why/when this is used, but it's here for completeness.

```
f8d4abb776389656c6ce3abb663f5c83121897a2b9b92a138b5663baa0b195e5cf976ad20814a76cd77857cb0308e08edad67a776d6d71495beed6363c6dce45
```

## Requirements
- Node.js
- pnpm

## Usage
- `generate.js` will generate secret keys in all four formats and save it to a `.env` file.
- `loader.js` will load the keys from the `.env` file and display them.

```bash
git clone
cd keypair-tutorial
pnpm install
pnpm run load
```

Use `pnpm run generate` to generate new keys. This will replace the existing `.env` file, which has keys with devnet SOL.
